Short Circuit

Demonstrate what happens to the voltage between the power source when there is a short circuit.

Components

1. Breadboard
2. 9 volt battery

Steps

Step 1:

Take a breadboard.

Image 1

Step 2:

Take a 9 volt battery.

Image 2

Step 3:

Connect the positive terminal of the battery to the + terminal at the top of the breadboard.

Image 3

Step 4

Connect the negative terminal of the battery to the - terminal at the bottom of the breadboard.

Image 4

The reason we use this way to connect is that it follows the conventions used in drawing a circuit diagram. We follow the same convention as the circuit diagram in the simulation to make it easy to understand.

Step 5

Connect the positive terminal to the negative. This is the green wire.

Image 5

In the real world, this would lead to heating of the battery and is not safe.

Step 6

Take a multimeter.

Image 6

Step 7

Connect the negative terminal of the multimeter to the - terminal at the bottom of the breadboard.

Image 7

Step 8

Connect the postive terminal of the multimeter to the + terminal at the top of the breadboard.

Image 8

Step 9

Click on the Run Simulation in Tinkercad. You will see 0 volts between the positive and negative terminal. This demonstrates the short circuit.

Image 9

Step 10

If you remove the connection between the postive and negative terminals of the breadboard, you can see the voltage of the power source is 9 volts.

Image 10

This experiment demonstrates short circuiting, where a low-resistance path is created between the positive and negative terminals of a power source. In a circuit with components, short circuit allows current to bypass the components in the circuit. This leads to zero voltage between the terminals and dangerous conditions like overheating or damage. In a short circuit, no useful work is done because the current flows freely without transforming any of the electrical energy to any other form of useful energy. Only heat is generated which is considered a waste in most applications.

PENDING

The word short in short circuit means ... refer short-circuit.md.
