## Terraform Output for AWS Secrets

To output the AWS secrets created by Terraform to the standard output, you can define an output value in your Terraform configuration file ( in `outputs.tf`) that references the attributes of the `aws_secretsmanager_secret` resource you wish to display. However, for security reasons, avoid outputting sensitive information like secret values to the console. Instead, you can output non-sensitive information such as the ARN or the name of the secret.

Here's an example of how to output the ARN and the name of the secret you've created:

```hcl
output "ror_key_secret_arn" {
  description = "The ARN of the ROR key secret in AWS Secrets Manager."
  value       = aws_secretsmanager_secret.ror_key_secret.arn
}

output "ror_key_secret_name" {
  description = "The name of the ROR key secret in AWS Secrets Manager."
  value       = aws_secretsmanager_secret.ror_key_secret.name
}
```

This way, you can retrieve metadata about the secret without exposing its  value. If you need to access the secret value, it's better to do so securely within your applications using the AWS SDK or CLI, querying by the secret's ARN or name, and ensuring appropriate IAM permissions are in place to restrict access to authorized entities only.

Use best practices for managing secrets, such as using AWS IAM roles and policies to control access, avoiding hardcoding secrets in your source code or Terraform configurations, and regularly rotating secrets.

Terraform will output the name of the AWS Secrets Manager secret exactly as it is stored in AWS, which in this case would be something like `"ror_key_secret-pqc11in5"` assuming that `pqc11in5` is the result generated by the `random_string` resource. This output will occur after applying your Terraform configuration, and it will look similar to this in your terminal:

```
Outputs:

ror_key_secret_name = "ror_key_secret-pqc11in5"
```

The exact name depends on the random suffix generated by the `random_string.ror_key_suffix` resource at the time of the secret's creation.
