
Threshold Voltage

When the LED turns on in this circuit, it demonstrates forward voltage. Forward voltage is the voltage required for the LED to conduct current and emit light. When the LED is forward-biased and the voltage across it reaches a certain threshold called the forward voltage, it allows current to flow and the LED lights up. So, the LED turning on is an example of forward voltage in action.

Components

Image 0

Steps

Step 1

Take a breadboard.

Image 1

Step 2

Take a resistor with 1 k ohm value.

Image 2

Step 3

Connect the resistor to the negative terminal of the power rails in the breadboard.

Image 3

Step 4

Take an LED. Connect it to g10 and g11. The resistor is now connected to the cathode of the LED.

Image 4

Step 5

Connect the anode to the positive terminal of the power rails in the breadboard. This is the connection from j11.

Image 5

Step 6

Take a power supply. We are using a variable DC power supply to see how when the voltage reaches a certain value called the threshold voltage, the LED will turn on. This voltage is called the Forward Voltage.

Image 6

Step 7

Connect the negative terminal of the power supply to the negative terminal of the power rails in the breadboard.

Image 7

Step 8

Connect the positive terminal of the power supply to the positive terminal of the power rails in the breadboard.

Image 8

Step 9

Change the input voltage to 1 volt in the power supply. Run the simulation. The LED is off.

Image 9

Step 10

Increase the voltage to volts. LED begins to run on.

Image 10

Step 11

Reduce the voltage to 1.5 volts. LED is now dimmer than before. But is still on.

Image 11

Step 12

Reduce the voltage to 1.25 volts. LED seems to be off. The current is 0 amperes. So it cannot be in a on state.

Image 12

Step 13

Increase the voltage to 1.8 volts. The RED is begining to increase in brightness. The current is 92.3 micro A.

Image 13

Step 14

Increase the voltage to 2.1 volts. It is even brighter at 331 micro A.

Image 14

Step 15

Increase the voltage to 3 volts. It is even brighter at 1.17 mA current.

Image 15

Step 16

Increase the voltage to 4 volts. It is even brighter at 2.13 mA current.

Image 16

Step 17

Increase the voltage to 5 volts. It is even brighter. The current is 3.11 mA.

Image 17

Step 18

Increase the voltage to 6 volts. It is even brighter. The current is 4.09 mA.

Image 18

Step 19

At 7 volts, the current is 5.08 mA. The brightness is increasing.

Image 19

At 22 volts and 19.9 mA current, the LED is at its maximum brightness.

Image 20

At 22.1 volts. The LED is now getting to a point where it is stressed to the maximum. The current is 22 mA.

Image 21
Image 22
